In quantum mechanics, the Schrödinger equation is a mathematical equation that describes the evolution over time of a physical system in which quantum effects, such as wave–particle duality, are significant. The equation is a mathematical formulation for studying quantum mechanical systems. It is considered a central result in the study of quantum system and its derivation was a significant landmark in developing the theory of quantum mechanics. It was named after Erwin Schrödinger, who derived the equation in 1925 and published it in 1926, forming the basis for his work that resulted in Schrödinger being awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1933.[1][2] The equation is a type of differential equation known as a wave-equation, which serves as a mathematical model of the movement of waves.

In classical mechanics, Newton's second law (F = ma) is used to make a mathematical prediction as to what path a given system will take following a set of known initial conditions. In quantum mechanics, the analogue of Newton's law is Schrödinger's equation for a quantum system (usually atoms, molecules, and subatomic particles whether free, bound, or localised). It is not a simple algebraic equation, but in general a linear partial differential equation, describing the time-evolution of the system's wave function (also called a "state function").[3]:1–2

The concept of a wavefunction is a fundamental postulate of quantum mechanics. Using these postulates, Schrödinger's equation can be derived from the fact that the time-evolution operator must be unitary and must therefore be generated by the exponential of a self-adjoint operator, which is the quantum Hamiltonian. This derivation is explained below.

In the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, the wave function is the most complete description that can be given of a physical system. Solutions to Schrödinger's equation describe not only molecular, atomic, and subatomic systems, but also macroscopic systems, possibly even the whole universe.[4]:292ff Schrödinger's equation is central to all applications of quantum mechanics including quantum field theory which combines special relativity with quantum mechanics. Theories of quantum gravity, such as string theory also do not modify Schrödinger's equation.

The Schrödinger equation is not the only way to study quantum mechanical systems and make predictions, as there are other quantum mechanical formulations such as matrix mechanics, introduced by Werner Heisenberg, and path integral formulation, developed chiefly by Richard Feynman. Paul Dirac incorporated matrix mechanics and the Schrödinger equation into a single formulation.
